
      A Computer Science Curriculum for the Middle Schools


This curriculum was designed as a supplement to the "tech readiness"
curriculum employed in many middle schools.  Most tech readiness
curricula treat the computer as a mere device to be used, a black box
that runs browsers, word processors, and spreadsheets.  But the
computer is much more than that: it is a tool that is shaping our
future, and it is also a tool that a user can shape.  The applications
of tomorrow are very likely going to bear only a passing resemblance
to the ones in use today.  Students should be equipped not only to
operate today's computer programs, but to understand computers well
enough to operate the programs of tomorrow.  And some students may
create those programs.  All students should be aware of that
possibility.

The goal of this curriculum is to provide basic familiarity with a
broad range of computer science concepts.  By the end of the
curriculum, students will be able to understand the components of a
simple computer program well enough to be able to modify it and
successfully change its function.  This will provide a base of
understanding for learning to design and write a program from scratch
in the future, though that is not a necessary part of this
curriculum.

Funded by NASA Space Grant, this curriculum was developed at the
Learning Community, a public charter school in Central Falls, Rhode
Island during the 2014--2015 academic year.  It was meant to be the
first of three successive years of lessons, with the second and third
years looping through similar material, adding more advanced concepts
with each pass.

The curriculum itself is just the document cs-curriculum.pdf. The
latex source for the document is included in src/, as are all the
images used in it, for those who want to use this to base further work
on.  There's also a PPT presentation made to the NASA Space Grant
Rhode Island chapter that funded this work that you might find
interesting.
